Well, now we look forward to the next speaker.
This is by the Stephen Lett.
Also of the governing body, he gives us the theme here,
never give up much for little.
Jesus gave a parable about a young man
who exchanged peace and prosperity in his father's household
for a debauched, miserable, desperate life.
Foolishly, he exchanged much for little.
It's the story of the prodigal son, Luke chapter 15.
In contrast, in Matthew chapter 13,
Jesus gave a story about a traveling merchant
who sold everything he had to buy one pearl of high value.
When we understand the meaning of that parable
in actuality, he exchanged little for much.
Now, obviously, your brothers and sisters
do not want to imitate the prodigal son,
you want to imitate the traveling merchant.
And Jehovah doesn't want you to give away much for little.
He wants you to give away little for much.
And Jehovah is anxious to give you this much.
That's why he's recorded parables,
such as the two we just mentioned,
and also real life stories in his word
that depict both scenarios so that we can be wise.
In fact, let's briefly discuss four Bible examples
of ones who foolishly gave up much for little.
And then we'll talk about four Bible examples
of ones who gave up little for much.
Our first example, Satan.
Now, Satan gave up a priceless honored position
of trust in Jehovah's service
that he may have enjoyed for eons of time.
And what did he receive for what he gave up?
A relatively short, miserable life of independence
from Jehovah, and ultimately he will have earned for himself
the lake of fire.
We know right now, Satan cannot be happy at all.
Jehovah is described as a happy God.
First Timothy 111, Jesus, the happy potentate.
First Timothy 615, happy as the nation
whose God is Jehovah Psalm 3312.
But Satan has never described as anything close to happy, is he?
I mean, he's described as an enraged, roaring lion,
an accuser who accuses day and night.
One who has great anger because he knows this time is short.
Does that sound like a happy person?
But what caused Satan to give up so much for so little?
Pride.
Pride actually caused him to think
that he was smarter than Jehovah.
Can you imagine that the clay was smarter than the potter?
A pride caused him to think that life without Jehovah
would actually be better life.
Well, may we never pridefully feel
that we know better than Jehovah in any areas?
For example, how to treat this fellowship once?
The need to avoid bad association,
marrying only in the Lord as a few examples.
May we never pridefully feel
that the so-called freedom from Jehovah
that the world offers will bring happiness.
Let's learn from Satan.
Never allow pride to cause you to give up much for little.
Now, our second example, Adam and Eve.
Satan offered them the opportunity to be like God,
his own aspiration.
And stupidly, I mean stupidly,
they bought into his hoax.
They selfishly gave up their invaluable family ties
with the best father they could ever have.
They gave up their paradise home,
perfect everlasting life.
Their children's future welfare.
All for what?
A relatively short, miserable life of independence
from Jehovah, and finally, non-existence.
A total loss.
What an outstanding example of giving up much for little.
So may we learn from Adam and Eve.
Never allow Satan's lies to cause you to give up
a much for little.
At lies such as material things will make you happy.
Or immorality will make you happy.
Unlike Adam and Eve,
let's refuse to allow Satan's lies
to cause us to give up much for little.
Esau our third example,
knew the history of Satan and Adam and Eve,
but did he learn from them?
No, he too lacked appreciation for sacred things.
Esau was Isaac's firstborn son,
and in Bible times this had great value.
But he thought only of his immediate physical cravings.
Genesis 2532 says he became very hungry and cried out,
I am about to die.
Was he really?
Should he have not endured a little bit longer
rather than sell his birthright?
Now, pretty quick, he realized his mistake.
He saw something with real value.
For what?
I mean, what did he receive?
Some bread and lentils stew.
Apparently this stew didn't even have any meat in it.
We bathelites.
We can get bread, lentils, and meat for free
in the Bethel pantry.
What is a lesson we can learn from Esau?
We'll open up to Hebrews chapter 12, please.
And here's a very interesting lesson.
Jehovah teaches us about Esau.
Hebrews 12 verse 16.
And watch that among you there is no one
who is sexually immoral, nor anyone
who does not appreciate sacred things like Esau,
who gave up his rights as firstborn in exchange for one meal.
But you know, interestingly,
Jehovah compares a person who commits sexual immorality
to what Esau did.
And if you think about it, both lacking self-control
given to fleshly desires, that's what Esau did.
That's what a person who commits sexual immorality
will make none of us allow immorality
to cause us to sell our figurative birthright,
our inheritance in Jehovah's New World.
And think about this.
How long did that bread and lentil stew last, Esau?
How long did it benefit him?
A few hours?
Soon he would have been hungry again.
Well, similarly, how long does the so-called pleasure
of an immoral person last?
Only a short time followed by horrible consequences,
including a bad conscience.
In our fourth example, the rich young ruler in Jesus' day,
he held high position, had many possessions.
Jesus even felt love for him.
But was he prepared to give up his wealth
for something infinitely more valuable and permanent,
the treasure of following Jesus?
No.
When Jesus invited him, the Bible says, he went away grieved.
He couldn't bring himself to give up his many possessions.
Instead, he gave up a wonderful future.
Obviously, he gave up the wrong thing, didn't he?
Where are those who did follow Jesus now?
Immortal, kings and priests,
with Christ in heaven, in Jehovah's presence.
But unless that young ruler later changed his ways,
he and all that was his are now dust.
What a classic example of giving up so much for so little,
may we never allow any of the material attractions
of this world to cause us to give up our wonderful future
in Jehovah's New World.
Well, we've considered our four negative examples,
but let us move to our four positive examples,
ones who gave up little for much.
First, Abraham, at Jehovah's invitation,
Abraham gave up a comfortable life in upscale earth.
At Jehovah's invitation,
he took his family on a long, dangerous trek
to the land of promised.
And there, he willingly lived the rest of his life intense.
But what did Abraham receive for what he gave up?
He gained a permanent place in Jehovah's heart.
A Jehovah himself called him my friend
because of his faith, Jehovah's War,
that through one of his descendants,
all nations would be blessed.
And that descendant, the Messiah, Jesus will soon
resurrect Abraham to enjoy the real life.
But now, are we willing to give up material possessions
and comforts in order, for example,
to enter the full-time ministry,
or maybe be able to move and serve with an edict greater?
In order to secure a permanent place in Jehovah's heart,
like Abraham, are we willing to give up little for much?
Our second example, Moses, centuries after Abraham,
Moses also gave up the right things.
Raised as royalty in Pharaoh's palace,
he was groomed for greatness in the world of his day.
He knew all about the Egypt's advanced civilization
and culture.
But the Bible doesn't elaborate on anything
that Moses accomplished in Egypt.
Of why?
Because anything he may have achieved there
was utterly insignificant
compared to what he did in Jehovah's service.
Moses received the law that led Israel to the Messiah.
No other prophet knew Jehovah, quote, face to face.
He did well in giving up life in Egypt
in order to carry out God's commission.
As for the wealth and grandeur of ancient Egypt,
we can see crumbling remnants of it in museums.
But Moses gained God's favor, he gained the real life,
he gained a permanent place in our spiritual heritage
and a permanent place in all of our hearts.
Well, let's go to our third example, Jesus.
The best example of gaining a lot more than he gave up.
Like Abraham and Moses, he willingly gave up a comfortable life.
Now in his case, life and heaven alongside Jehovah,
but he emptied himself, became a human,
ministered to other humans,
even gave his life, trusting that Jehovah
would give life back to him.
He gained the great joy of fulfilling
his father's righteous purpose
and redeeming those he was especially fond of.
Humans.
If you think about it, apparently Jesus
didn't really realize how much he would receive
for what he gave up.
Because remember in John 17.5, he said,
Father, glorify me with a glory I had alongside you
before the world was.
In other words, Father, please give me back what I had before.
But Jehovah gave him a lot more, didn't he?
And that's always true of Jehovah, really.
If you think about it, you can't outgive Jehovah.
Jehovah gave him a name more excellent
than the angels.
Jehovah gave him all authority in heaven and earth.
He even gave him immortality and incorruption.
And we know that means an indestructible life
and indestructible organism or body.
Now our fourth example, Jesus Apostles,
Peter, Andrew, James, and John abandoned
their fishing businesses, didn't he?
All the other Apostles, the Bible says,
left all things.
And remember, Peter asked, Lord, we've left all things
and followed you, what then will there be for us?
Well, Jesus assured him that anyone gives up material things
or even family relationships for him
or for the sake of the good news
would receive a hundredfold even now.
Do you think about that?
That's a 10,000% return.
Plus, he will get everlasting life.
In fact, think about it, where are these Apostles now?
Like Jesus, immortal, incorruptible spirit creatures.
Open up to Revelation chapter 20
and notice what is said about these wines.
Revelation chapter 20, please.
And notice for a six, it says happy.
Notice that word happy.
And holy is anyone having part in the first resurrection
over these, the second death has no authority,
but they will be priest of God and of the Christ
and they will relish kings with him for the thousand years.
So they're going to be happy in their assignment.
This is assured in this scripture.
Why are they going to be so happy?
Acts 20, 35, there's more happiness and giving
than receiving.
And what an occasion the thousand years will be forgiving.
Can you imagine assisting humans
to transform the entire planet into
a originally intended condition?
Imagine working closely with the Christ to empty the grave
and gradually helping humans to come to perfection.
And then after the thousand years,
being able to share in the final crushing of evil Satan
and his wicked demons, what hapeifying work all of this will be.
But what will be their main source of happiness?
Well, being part of the main instrument, the kingdom
that Jehovah will use to sanctify and vindicate his holy name.
I thought I'd go ahead and put to work that
new understanding, brother Jackson revealed earlier.
But it's true to vindicate Jehovah's name, his reputation.
That'll bring the greatest happiness to that.
You can be sure when the apostles gave up
their little fishing businesses and the other apostles,
their worldly pursuits, they had no idea
how much they would receive in return.
Well, now we've discussed Abraham, Moses, Jesus,
the apostles and there's no doubt about it.
They would all wholeheartedly agree that what they gave up
was very small compared to what they gained.
Well, what about us?
We all give up things, don't we?
Great and small for Jehovah.
We may give up time, energy, money, possessions.
We may have to give up a little face, prestige in this world.
But we will experience what all those good Bible examples did,
what we get back always, far outweighs in a loss.
In fact, most of us would probably say,
we feel like we haven't given up anything.
We're receiving like those men of old 100 times more now.
And we are sure to gain life, the real life
if we never give up much for little.
I'm sure we all totally enjoyed that encouragement.
Well, now at this point, you're probably thinking we said
there was an adjusted understanding.
You got that one?
A lot of encouragement, yes.
Then there was the one about the year text, yes.
What was the other one?
Well, we've come to the final talk.
If we don't get it now, it's not going to come.
Remember, we said an adjustment
to the way we do our ministry.
So with eager anticipation,
we look forward to hearing from brother Anthony Morris,
who will talk to us about making our blows count.
We are involved in the greatest preaching campaign
in all history.
We publish quality literature to 140 lands.
It's amazing.
However, we're not about seeking praise
for the quality of our magazines
or the hundreds of languages that we're translating in.
What's our focus?
Well, we want to imitate
what the Apostle Paul wrote about himself
in the governing body really wants this message to be clear.
So all of God's people that are preachers
and teachers of the kingdom.
So find what I'm referring to in first Corinthians,
chapter nine, and you'll remember
he's describing his pursuit of the prize,
and it's quite profound when you reflect on it,
and you'll see where it fits every one of us
that are dedicated to the true God, verse 26.
Therefore, the way I am running is not aimlessly.
The way I am aiming my blows is,
so it's not to be striking the air.
So you can picture running aimlessly.
It's a waste of time and energy.
Striking the air, a waste of time and energy.
So the time left reduced,
the end is so close.
And I've told folks, if you look around
and you don't see how different it is and how close it is,
you must be in a coma.
And that's okay, God can bring you out of a coma
if you're all right before that.
But the governing body's concern
with the limited time we have left
that we make our blows count.
So to truly make our blows count,
what should be the focus of our work?
We're not left without knowing how Jehovah thinks.
It's been here all along,
but sometimes we can individually
and even organizationally get distracted.
It turned to Acts chapter 13.
Acts chapter 13.
And they were preaching there in the first century
and we get some results and we also get God's thinking
on the matter and what He wants us to focus on.
Acts 13 verse 48.
When those of the nations heard this message,
they began to rejoice and to glorify the word of Jehovah.
Now notice, in all those who were rightly disposed
for everlasting life became believers.
There it is.
That's the focus of our work.
Searching for those rightly disposed
for everlasting life.
It's not complicated and to try to help somebody
that's not rightly disposed,
frankly, is a waste of time.
Now we don't read hearts,
we understand that people can change
and we continue with that.
But overall, Jehovah wants us to understand,
let's search out for those that are rightly disposed
for everlasting life.
Because no one comes to the truth,
remember, as Jesus taught us,
unless Jehovah draws Him.
We don't want to get thinking
our personality draws people to the truth.
You might be likable, it's wonderful.
However, Jehovah draws those rightly disposed
and you become friends and such,
if you have the privilege to study with people,
but that's what it's about.
Searching those rightly disposed ones,
that's who he draws, those that are righteous leads.
He reads the heart.
And so we're in this search work,
but we're looking to focus on those rightly disposed.
So with that clear,
the governing body is identified in two problems.
And this is what we want to pass on
and it can adversely affect our effectiveness
in the ministry.
And this is what we're about,
a preaching and teaching organization.
This is who we are.
So for many years, and we acknowledge it,
there was a focus on placing magazines.
Developing magazine routes.
I'd help some come into the truth,
no denying it, because our literature
is the best on the earth.
Others have accepted our magazines
for many years, many years,
and they've never done a thing about the truth.
But they're still going back.
You know, coming back from the Deus service,
how many magazines do you place?
Now they mean, well, God loves us, but excuse me.
That's not the focus of our work.
It has to refocus on what we're all about.
And just think about it.
Jesus commanded, go there for and make disciples
of people, of all the nations.
We don't have the authority to change
what they had of the congregation has said,
and go along the lines of,
go there for and place a lot of literature.
That's not our focus.
Even though it's the best on the planet,
we're about searching for the rightly disposed,
so they can become disciples of Christ.
And these ones that have taken our literature for years,
and you know, as we said, individuals might change.
They remind us of what happened in Ezekiel's day,
and some of you are Bible readers, scholars, if you will,
but let's read it anyway in Ezekiel 33,
and find what he faced, and we face this.
It's a reality.
So given the limited time,
we have to make sure,
and Jehovah's Spirit's moving us this way,
that we accept this as the way it is,
our day as well.
Now notice verse 31 of Ezekiel 33,
31 and 32,
they will crown in to sit before you as my people,
and they will hear your words, but they will not do them.
For worth their mouth, they flatter you,
but their heart is greedy for dishonest gain,
look, you order them like a romantic love song,
sung with a beautiful voice,
and skillfully played on a stringed instrument.
They will hear your words,
but no one will act on them.
That's every territory,
and if you've worked it for many years,
you can have faces come to mind, just like that.
Come to occasional meetings and such.
Well, time's running out.
God's making that very clear to us.
We need to help people come into the truth.
We don't need the flattery and such,
and that kind of experience.
This is a time for decision,
or looking for people that will act on what they learn.
That's where our blows are gonna be effective.
People have to act on it.
And if you're not seeing that, just get searching,
and let the angels and Jehovah's spirit
take you to the rightly disposed ones.
And something that we forget,
our work is twofold.
We can forget that sometimes.
We're searching and bringing in the rightly disposed,
and the others, we're praising and honoring
your Jehovah, like Brother Loishmensen,
because they're hearing about Jehovah's Judgment Day.
So it's twofold.
It's a warning warning.
You could go a whole morning,
and I have what you thought was, in fact, a day,
no literature, but you praise God,
because they're still thinking about Jehovah's Witnesses
and your efforts to preach in that territory.
So, gotta keep that in mind.
So that's the one problem.
And here's problem too, that we wanna address.
We have so many tools to use in the ministry.
It can be overwhelming and confusing,
even to the best minds.
So, your older ones don't feel slip in here.
I'm confused, no.
The young ones are trying to, often,
overwhelmed and confused.
So our teaching toolbox that we emphasize
in recent years, what happened
is it became a huge tool shed.
You know, a lot of your non-year hits, it's okay.
That's not disloyal, it's true.
It's become a huge tool shed.
Now, we appreciate the sample presentations
at the midweek meaning, frankly, many of us are so busy,
we can't keep up with all the latest presentations.
No matter how good they are, oh, that was good.
And then Saturday morning or Sunday, okay,
what am I doing today?
We had three of them in our midweek meeting.
I don't know what am I supposed to do here.
And then if you got a critic nearby, you know,
oh, Lauren, you know.
Plus, many struggled to keep up with reading
all the magazines.
You're not a bad person.
Jehovah loves you, we understand.
So, in view of this, the governing bodies
are adjusting the focus of our ministry.
You're getting the message, addressing these two problems.
And we are 100% with this unanimous.
Everybody in the departments connected are with it.
They can sense Jehovah's spirit, moving it.
This is what Jehovah's doing.
It's his chariot, he's the driver.
So, here's the adjustments.
Starting January 2018, there will only be three
public editions of the watchtower.
For those that are tied in, I heard some expressions
that are down in front here and couldn't help it.
Only three public editions of the watchtower
and three of the awake magazines, the whole year.
See, yeah, I'm excited too.
I'm really, yeah.
Now, in what's beautiful about this,
they're going to cover one subject in the whole magazine.
Start to finish, say, one subject.
Now, I have here a hard copy of the first one.
So, I'm excited about it.
And, in my view, these are special.
This one is special.
It's the first one.
And Jehovah's moving it toward
those rightly disposed forever lasting life.
Because he knows his day and hour.
And this one is quite easy to start a conversation
with, and once you have a question,
you're in a conversation already.
So, whether it's, get off my porch
or they want to get involved in the answering of that question,
it's effective.
And the rightly disposed are going to be intrigued.
The first one, this question here,
is the Bible still relevant today?
Certain territories?
Maybe not.
But there may be righteously disposed ones there.
You have a nice cover picture.
A woman in the back reading her Bible
is the train's going by.
People distracted with their watches, their phones, et cetera.
And then, on the inside,
and you're going to become familiar with this,
you've got plenty of time to use it, this tool,
over and over, oh yeah.
You'll know right where to go.
You might decide, well, I'll go,
where comments are outdated or ahead of its time,
depending on what the person may have said.
You have that freedom.
So appropriate, help to avoid problems,
help to resolve problems, help to cope with problems.
Boy do people need that.
And those that are rightly disposed for everlasting life,
know they have problems.
They're honest about it.
And so this will touch their heart and Jehovah will draw them.
Now, what's nice about it is that you're
going to be able to get very familiar with it,
use it, and it'll become part of our permanent teaching
toolbox.
See, and it'll go in the teaching toolbox.
Even like these skilled craftsmen,
they have their toolbox.
Why are they so good at what they do in many cases?
Because they keep using these tools.
It's not rocket science.
These are craftsmen with these tools.
I need this, I need that to accomplish what they need here.
So we only need so many tools in the box.
The ones that we can get, very good at using.
And what's nice when it's in the permanent teaching toolbox
there, you're not changing all the time.
And was all that sincere, yes?
But I could tell you stories, but times
running out of some of the things I've heard out in the ministry.
I could tell they never read that.
But they're out there.
God love them.
They were knocking on doors with me.
You get familiar with the tool.
Now, what we'll do will evaluate after two years.
And it might be, so you're at the governing body,
decides that we think we've got sufficient subjects
in the magazines for the toolbox.
And then we'll just reprint.
It's already been written.
So you've got your tools.
Now, you're going to get more details
on the teaching toolbox soon.
And you'll also be pleased to know this,
that the brother's been working hard on this.
He's going to be an update on the box, teaching toolbox,
and the JW library.
And we love the JW library.
It'll be on the homepage there.
That'll be happening in the near future.
And this question will arise now,
because territories are different.
We understand that.
What if you find that the teaching toolbox
doesn't contain a tool that you have found effective
in your territory, like a video that you think
is, and you've experienced effectiveness with it?
It's OK.
Put it in your favorite section.
So don't write in and say, I think
that should be in the teaching toolbox.
We've gone through all of this at headquarters.
It's OK.
But you go ahead and put it in your favorite section
and use it.
Not a problem.
Now, so that's covered those with the preaching
and the focus of our ministry.
And there's another adjustment that I've
been asked to announce here.
We all enjoy the latest reports on the worldwide work
that we have on JW.org and JW Broadcasting.
We love it.
And I know recently, so in time, they didn't
know about Venezuela.
Well, it was on JW.org, but you don't
want to try and make it feel bad.
But there's so much we're getting all throughout the year.
And it's timely and a blessing.
So with this in mind, the governing body
has decided that with all of the information
on JW.org and JW Broadcast, that as of 2018,
we will no longer produce the yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses,
especially been the truth a long time.
Yes?
The 2017 is your last one.
So that's a story.
But OK, mine.
Try to convince me you've seen everything we've put on JW.org
and JW Broadcast.
See, God's watching.
You're well fed, you've got plenty there.
These latest developments that are indeed exciting.
And as the end, fast approaches, let's honor Jehovah
and make our blows count.
Let's go forth and make disciples of people
that are righteously disposed forever lasting life.
What an exciting announcement.
I don't know about you, but I'm really excited about this
because we can see the end is so close.
And really, isn't the main thing
that we should be thinking about
is helping people to know Jehovah.
That's the prime goal.
So the governing body is helping us
to see how to have this toolbox.
We're all looking forward to see what's in the toolbox.
In addition to that, we've got a few other announcements
to make.
We'd like to inform you of some changes
that are planned with regard to the study edition
of the Watchdown.
Now, since 2011, in English, we've
been producing two different versions
of the study edition.
We've had the standard edition and the simplified.
And each of those has filled a vital need.
However, in recent months, the governing body
has asked the writing committee to investigate ways
to simplify the style of the standard edition.
Additionally, the governing body
has approved a new design for the standard edition,
which allows for a larger font style
and also has certain features that are only
in the simplified edition, such as some expressions
explained.
So with this in mind, the governing body
has decided as of January 1, 2019,
they're going to combine both versions of the magazines.
This will not only simplify our work,
it'll also be less confusing.
And we all will have the same magazine that we're using.
Now, you'll be interested to note
that many of the larger languages that
were producing two editions, languages such as Spanish,
Portuguese, French, and Italian,
have recently already combined their editions,
trying to simplify the language used
in their standard edition.
And this has been very successful.
We will continue to produce an electronic version
of the English Simplifiers magazine.
And that will be used mainly by translators
to help them to make sure their translation is still clear
and understandable.
Now, in addition, we'd like to let
you know that early next year, we'll
be receiving a new publication.
And it will be one of the ones that we use in the toolbox.
It is called How to Remain in God's Love.
And you see it here on the screen.
It's 256 pages.
And it uses the same simplified style as the TCHAS book.
So it's going to replace the current God's Love book.
These two publications, that is How to Remain in God's Love
and the TCHAS books, will be used in the toolbox
for helping students to become disciples.
You look forward to getting that.
Well, I know we'll be going away from here,
minds and hearts spinning around,
thinking of all the interesting changes and developments.